[![ci-bioc](https://bioconductor.org/shields/build/devel/data-experiment/curatedMetagenomicData.svg)](https://bioconductor.org/checkResults/devel/data-experiment-LATEST/curatedMetagenomicData/)
[![ci-linux](https://travis-ci.org/waldronlab/curatedMetagenomicData.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/waldronlab/curatedMetagenomicData)
[![codecov](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/waldronlab/curatedMetagenomicData/master.svg)](https://codecov.io/github/waldronlab/curatedMetagenomicData?branch=master)
[![downloads](https://www.bioconductor.org/shields/downloads/curatedMetagenomicData.svg)](http://bioconductor.org/packages/stats/data-experiment/curatedMetagenomicData/)
[![posts](https://bioconductor.org/shields/posts/curatedMetagenomicData.svg)](https://support.bioconductor.org/t/curatedmetagenomicdata/)

THIS IS AN EXPERIMENTAL FORK OF OF THE PACKAGE

# curatedMetagenomicData

*curatedMetagenomicData* uses [Bioconductor's](https://www.bioconductor.org)
[ExperimentHub](https://www.bioconductor.org/packages/ExperimentHub/) to
distribute taxonomic and metabolic functional profiles and curated metadata for
publicly available human microbiome samples generated by shotgun metagenomic
sequencing. 

## Quick Start

Install `curatedMetagenomicData` through Bioconductor using `BiocManager` and
open the
[package vignette](https://bioconductor.org/packages/release/data/experiment/vignettes/curatedMetagenomicData/inst/doc/curatedMetagenomicData.html).
Microbiome profiles and metadata can be accessed from within R or from the
command line.

```
BiocManager::install("curatedMetagenomicData")
browseVignettes("curatedMetagenomicData")
```

For more extensive information on installing and using `curatedMetagenomicData`
please see https://waldronlab.github.io/curatedMetagenomicData/.

## Contributing

Contributions will gladly be accepted provided they fit within the context of
the project. Please see
[CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/waldronlab/curatedMetagenomicData/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
for information regarding reporting bugs, pull request, adding datasets and
other issues.

## Copyright and License

**curatedMetagenomicData** is Free software licensed under the Artistic
License 2.0 (copied here as the LICENSE file, verbatim as required by the Perl
Foundation). For the purposes of this license, the "Copyright Holders" are the
authors of the manuscript (https://www.nature.com/articles/nmeth.4468). In
general you may use and re-distribute original and modified versions of the
software under very permissive conditions. The appropriate citation information
for each dataset can be found by doing `experimentData(eset)` (where `eset` is
the name of the ExpressionSet class data object), by looking at the man page of
the dataset (e.g. `?HMP_2012`), or by looking at the reference manual of the
[development](http://bioconductor.org/packages/devel/data/experiment/html/curatedMetagenomicData.html)
or
[release](http://bioconductor.org/packages/release/data/experiment/html/curatedMetagenomicData.html)
version.
